---
title: useId
---

### Generating unique IDs for accessibility attributes 

Call `useId` at the top level of your component to generate a unique ID:

```js [[1, 4, "passwordHintId"]]
import  from 'react';

function PasswordField() {
  const passwordHintId = useId();
  // ...
```

You can then pass the  to different attributes:

```js [[1, 2, "passwordHintId"], [1, 3, "passwordHintId"]]
<>
  
  
</>
```

**Let's walk through an example to see when this is useful.**

[HTML accessibility attributes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA) like [`aria-describedby`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-describedby) let you specify that two tags are related to each other. For example, you can specify that an element (like an input) is described by another element (like a paragraph).

In regular HTML, you would write it like this:

```html 

  Password:
  

  The password should contain at least 18 characters

```

However, hardcoding IDs like this is not a good practice in React. A component may be rendered more than once on the page--but IDs have to be unique! Instead of hardcoding an ID, generate a unique ID with `useId`:

```js 
import  from 'react';

function PasswordField() 
```

Now, even if `PasswordField` appears multiple times on the screen, the generated IDs won't clash.

[Watch this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0dNzNcuEuOo) to see the difference in the user experience with assistive technologies.

---

### Generating IDs for several related elements 

If you need to give IDs to multiple related elements, you can call `useId` to generate a shared prefix for them:

This lets you avoid calling `useId` for every single element that needs a unique ID.

---

### Specifying a shared prefix for all generated IDs 

If you render multiple independent React applications on a single page, pass `identifierPrefix` as an option to your [`createRoot`](/reference/react-dom/client/createRoot#parameters) or [`hydrateRoot`](/reference/react-dom/client/hydrateRoot) calls. This ensures that the IDs generated by the two different apps never clash because every identifier generated with `useId` will start with the distinct prefix you've specified.

---

### Using the same ID prefix on the client and the server 

If you [render multiple independent React apps on the same page](#specifying-a-shared-prefix-for-all-generated-ids), and some of these apps are server-rendered, make sure that the `identifierPrefix` you pass to the [`hydrateRoot`](/reference/react-dom/client/hydrateRoot) call on the client side is the same as the `identifierPrefix` you pass to the [server APIs](/reference/react-dom/server) such as [`renderToPipeableStream`.](/reference/react-dom/server/renderToPipeableStream)

```js
// Server
import  from 'react-dom/server';

const  = renderToPipeableStream(
  ,
  
);
```

```js
// Client
import  from 'react-dom/client';

const domNode = document.getElementById('root');
const root = hydrateRoot(
  domNode,
  reactNode,
  
);
```

You do not need to pass `identifierPrefix` if you only have one React app on the page.
